content/blog/2024/01-12-the-indieweb-needs-a-search-engine-or-something-like-it.md, before:

---
_schema: default
title: The indieweb needs a search engine
date: 2024-01-12T00:00:00Z
tags:
  - Indieweb
type: post
---

Follow me on a journey. This post is essentially a brain dump, but there’s a point and an idea somewhere, I think.

This whole thing started with a <a href="https://blog.cassidoo.co/post/human-curation/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">post</a> by Cassidy Williams.

She talks about how everyone metaphorically *disappeared* from the Internet after “social media™.” Personal blogs and websites became harder to come by, and human curation was replaced by algorithms and this “For You” page nonsense.

> When I say “I don’t know where everyone went,” I know everyone’s out there surfing the web, of course, but it feels like it’s a different place now. When the algorithms are determining everything we should be seeing, it’s a much less personal internet.

It’s a great read; please check it out.

It got me thinking and sharing this idea on Mastodon:

> Can we just make a new indieweb search engine that uses tags and requires people submit their own site to be a part of it? Literally just make a page with a search bar and type in whatever kind of blog/site you’re looking for. Ship it.

The replies came in, and they pointed to examples of this or variations of it. Matt Stein even shared a <a href="https://sizeof.cat/post/website-discovery/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">link to </a>their list in an article.

Some of these archives are what I had initially imagined, but they’re overwhelming in many ways, too. Landing on a page of thumbnails, links, or tags isn’t the most user-friendly. There’s also no source of truth to all of it, no standout example for others to follow. It’s potentially hundreds (or thousands?) of sites spread across dozens of lists.

So, I return to my original question: could we not create a single engine that these sorts of websites could hook into with a focused, minimal, user-friendly design akin to early (functional) Google? Could it federate? What about ActivityPub? Is there a scalable way to retain human curation?

I don’t have answers to these questions. I hope that something like this will prompt a discussion about it. Chris McLeod shared <a href="https://chrismcleod.dev/blog/indieweb-directory/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">a post</a> of his along the same lines from a few years ago. We can’t be the only ones thinking of this, right?

Several people have pointed me toward <a href="https://searchmysite.net/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">searchmysite.net</a>, which I had in mind. I ran a couple of searches and found some compelling sites already. I’m excited to dig into it more.

Commit message:

New post, updated indie web tags

content/blog/2024/01-12-the-indieweb-needs-a-search-engine-or-something-like-it.md, after:

---
_schema: default
title: The indie web needs a search engine
date: 2024-01-12T00:00:00Z
tags:
  - Indie web
type: post
---

Follow me on a journey. This post is essentially a brain dump, but there’s a point and an idea somewhere, I think.

This whole thing started with a <a href="https://blog.cassidoo.co/post/human-curation/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">post</a> by Cassidy Williams.

She talks about how everyone metaphorically *disappeared* from the Internet after “social media™.” Personal blogs and websites became harder to come by, and human curation was replaced by algorithms and this “For You” page nonsense.

> When I say “I don’t know where everyone went,” I know everyone’s out there surfing the web, of course, but it feels like it’s a different place now. When the algorithms are determining everything we should be seeing, it’s a much less personal internet.

It’s a great read; please check it out.

It got me thinking and sharing this idea on Mastodon:

> Can we just make a new indie web search engine that uses tags and requires people submit their own site to be a part of it? Literally just make a page with a search bar and type in whatever kind of blog/site you’re looking for. Ship it.

The replies came in, and they pointed to examples of this or variations of it. Matt Stein even shared a <a href="https://sizeof.cat/post/website-discovery/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">link to </a>their list in an article.

Some of these archives are what I had initially imagined, but they’re overwhelming in many ways, too. Landing on a page of thumbnails, links, or tags isn’t the most user-friendly. There’s also no source of truth to all of it, no standout example for others to follow. It’s potentially hundreds (or thousands?) of sites spread across dozens of lists.

So, I return to my original question: could we not create a single engine that these sorts of websites could hook into with a focused, minimal, user-friendly design akin to early (functional) Google? Could it federate? What about ActivityPub? Is there a scalable way to retain human curation?

I don’t have answers to these questions. I hope that something like this will prompt a discussion about it. Chris McLeod shared <a href="https://chrismcleod.dev/blog/indieweb-directory/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">a post</a> of his along the same lines from a few years ago. We can’t be the only ones thinking of this, right?

Several people have pointed me toward <a href="https://searchmysite.net/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">searchmysite.net</a>, which I had in mind. I ran a couple of searches and found some compelling sites already. I’m excited to dig into it more.
