---
title: Phones
date: 2024-05-09
tags:
- Technology
---

Robb [posted](https://rknight.me/blog/every-phone-ive-ever-owned/) about the phones he’d owned over the years and it reminded me of a note I’d started a while back and never finished, chronicling all the devices that have occupied a place inside my pocket over the years.

I know the timeline of some of these is blurry and I’m confident I’m missing a couple somewhere in there but I think it illustrates that I *clearly* have issues. I’m ignoring all the pre-smartphone devices I’ve owned but, for the record, my first phone was a Nokia 6110. Don’t judge me.

These are as chronological as possible given (waves hands around) all this.

## Smart Phones
- Blackberry Curve (8310)
- Blackberry Storm (9530)
- iPhone 3GS
- iPhone 4

## (Mostly) Android Phase
- Samsung Galaxy Note 3
- Nexus 4
- Nexus 5
- OnePlus One
- Moto X (1st generation)
- iPhone 5
- iPhone 6 Plus
- Nexus 6
- Nexus 5X
- Nexus 6P

## The Big iPhones
- iPhone 7 Plus
- Nextbit Robin
- OnePlus X1
- Essential PH-1
- Pixel 2 XL
- Pixel 3
- iPhone XR
- iPhone 11 Pro Max
- iPhone 12
- OnePlus Nord N1002
- iPhone 14 Pro Max
- iPhone 15 Pro

Phew. Quite the list. Let’s break down some high (and low) lights.

## Best "Fun" Phone
The OnePlus One was such a great phone to mess around with. Flashing different ROMs, swapping out the backplate, there was never a dull moment.

## Worst Phone
This was, without question, the Samsung Galaxy Note 3. The plastic phone felt cheap, TouchWhiz UI was sluggish and ugly, the battery was terrible… I used it for a couple weeks and returned it. This was where I first felt intrigued by “phablet” devices but it was otherwise a brutal experience.

…and I owned a Blackberry Storm, think about that for a second.

## Best Android Phone
My “panda” Pixel 2 XL was the best Android phone ever, though the Nexus 6 was a close second. After the disaster experience with the Note 3, I was always curious what using a good huge phone might be like. The Nexus 6 was that.

The Pixel 2 XL was a big, sturdy, gorgeous piece of hardware with a smooth, pure Android experience. It was as close as I ever felt, using the devices I did, that Google got to replicating the iPhone experience.

## Best iPhone
This is a really tough call. The iPhone 4 had the best design but the iPhone 6 Plus stands out because of how long I’d been waiting for a larger iPhone. I never liked the rounded sides of those generations of iPhone though so I think the iPhone 12 would be where I’d land. It had a great design, tons of power, and iOS was really firing around then too (iOS 14–17).

That said, the iPhone 15 Pro has been really great but I don’t think it would be where it is now if not for the evolution we saw from the 12.

## Looking Ahead
Every now and then I check out Pixel phones when I’m at Best Buy or wherever and am a bit tempted but I really dislike the direction Google’s gone with their Android UI. The performance of those devices has come a long way but I just can’t see myself wading back into the [Google ecosystem](https://www.reuters.com/article/idUSKBN23933B/) at this point. [Nothing](https://us.nothing.tech/) is doing really cool stuff with their hardware but, again, anything involving Google or the Play Store at this point is a non-starter.

The iPhone really kind of does it all for me. I’m thoroughly ingrained in the ecosystem and, for the most part, happy with what I’ve got there. Since day one, the iPhone has held up for me and, in the case where I’ve had issues, our local Apple Store has always been really helpful.
