---
title: Books I read in 2023
date: 2023-12-31
tags:
    - Manga
---

I fell pretty hard into manga last year. In 2023, my tastes continued to evolve. I developed a good understanding of the books I was into and wanted to continue to follow. Here’s the books I made it through this year.

## Favourite

Dandadan was a great surprise for me. I grabbed the first volume last year and it sat on my shelf. When I finally read it, I was immediately hooked. The mix of paranormal and fantasy is great and the the art is gorgeous. I love the humour and energy Yukinobu Tatsu is able to achieve with it.

## Most wholesome

Insomniacs After School was a heartwarming story to dig into. It’s centred around two teenagers who have trouble sleeping. The two cross paths while trying to sneak some shuteye in the observatory at their school and became friends.

## Weirdest

I enjoyed Heavenly Delusion, which I stumbled upon because of the anime. It’s a dark, post-apocalyptic story that doesn’t fall into many of the usual tropes. It’s also super weird, which I love, and it tackles gender issues from a unique angle.

## Most surprising read

I Can’t Believe I Slept with You was charming and fun. I was caught off guard based on the title. Two women develop a romantic relationship after an *unusual* first encounter. It’s only three volumes too so it’s a quick read.

## Most anticipated

I’m intrigued by the new volume of Heavenly Delusion. Besides that, Smoking Behind the Supermarket with You has caught my interest. I love a good slice-of-life story. Also, Honey Trap Shared House is raunchy fun and a nice chance of pace.

\[book\_list display=”grid” tag=”most-anticipated-2024″ order=”ASC”\]

You can view all the books I read in 2023 [here](https://now.mkhyns.com/book-list/books-2023/).